there are unfortunately no shortage of
lawsuits that need to be brought to
better enforce environmental law there's
no shortage of need to represent the
public interest in trying to strengthen
environmental law and environmental
policies peak fills a great niche by
providing representation to people that
wouldn't otherwise be able to afford
representation in environmental issues
we do a wide variety of cases involving
pollution water pollution air pollution
protection of endangered species and
other natural resource and land
management issues so we try to get our
students and as involved as possible in
all aspects of the cases they work on
very complex litigation from federal
court of appeals to a city task force on
toxic air quality and kind of everything
in between when I was working on the
appeal in front of the Oregon land use
Board of Appeals I helped write the
brief and then I also got to argue in
front of the board I had five minutes to
make the argument on behalf of the
intervenors and so that was an
outstanding experience that not a lot of
students get and because you work
closely with the peak attorneys you're
almost treated you're treated as a
junior attorney it's not just like
you're a law student who's just kind of
doing some research and throwing it to
them you're drafting things you're
writing motions you're working on
exports and editing them and then you
just have the supervision by the peak
attorney so it's a great experience to
kind of get the real live experience of
what litigation is like we have been
involved in litigation challenging the
operation of the dams the hydropower
dams on the Columbia nsync river for
many years and our work with
earthjustice has resulted in
additional measures to protect salmon at
those dams for example spilling water
over the dams that allow juvenile salmon
to to bypass the turbines and avoid
death or injury that way especially in
the clean water contacts there's been a
lot of big cases in the ESA context peak
is represented people on protecting lots
of endangered species and in the Clean
Air Act context we're working very hard
to increase Peaks representation of
local neighborhood groups doing work
with urban air toxics which is kind of
an underserved aspect of the Clean Air
Act and environmental law in general as
much as it is a program a pretty well
established clinic it still has the feel
of sort of like a grassroots
organization of lawyers trying to make a
difference
you